# Project Proposal
## What data set is being used?
- **Data set**
  - We propose to use the Eating & Health (EH) Module of the American Time Use Survey (ATUS) from 2014 ([data set](https://www.kaggle.com/bls/eating-health-module-dataset#ehresp_2014.csv); [data dictionary](https://www.bls.gov/tus/ehmintcodebk1416.pdf)). In particular, we fill focus on the  EH Respondent file (ehresp_2014), which includes a wide range of information collected from respondents regarding their health, diet, activities, and economic situation. 
- **Size**
  - This data set includes 11,212 observations and 37 variables. Of the 37 variables, approximately 25 are likely to be useful either as predictors or target values.
- **Continuous vs categorical**
  - The majority (n=27) of the variables are categorical and have been encoded to numeric values (e.g., 1: Yes, 2: No). Of these, the greatest number of possible valid values is 5. 
  - Six variables are continuous.
- **Missing values**
  - Missing values have been encoded to one of three possible values: `-1` for blank, `-2` for a value unknown to the respondent, and `-3` for a respondent's refusal to answer.

## Is there a specific reason you picked this data set?
- We are interested in analyzing what factors are related to overall health. We initially considered the [Food Environment Atlas](https://catalog.data.gov/dataset/food-environment-atlas-f4a22) data set, which contains county-level data related to food environment, community characteristics, and health. However, this dataset contained around 3500 observations, which proved too small for the project.

## What is the question of interest?
- Broadly speaking, we are interested in factors related to positive and negative health outcomes.
- More specifically, we plan to evaluate the following:
  - Which behavioral (such as shopping patterns), diet (such as soda consumption and whether an individual eats meat), and activity (such as frequency of exercise) factors are most salient in predicting an individual has a healthy body mass index (BMI)?
  - What is the role of socioeconomic factors (such as income level and participation in WIC or SNAP programs) in relation to individuals having a healthy BMI?
  - What clusters arise that group behavioral, diet, activity, and health data?

## What methods do you plan to use?
- We plan to use feature selection techniques to determine which variables have the greatest predictive power. 
- Since many of our predictor variables are categorical, we will end up making frequent use of one hot encoding.
- We will consider various regression techniques to predict and individual's BMI (a continuous value). 
- We will also likely try breaking BMI into underweight, healthy, overweight, and obese categories, for which we would try a variety of classification algorithms. Classification, likewise, would be useful for predicting an individual's self-assigned health status (Excellent, Very Good, Good, Fair, or Poor).
- For any given question, we will try a variety of algorithms and try to find the optimum hyperparameters.
